---
title: "Fear"
layout: post
date: 2018-07-30
image: /assets/images/blog/fear.jpeg
headerImage: true
tag:
- life
- fear
- motivation
category: blog
author: wang0nya
description: Is it really worth it?
---

It might seem simple, but have you ever thought about it? Fear is usually caused not by things that are actually happening, but by dangers we anticipate. 
As Seneca puts it, 
>_“There are more things likely to frighten us than there are to crush us; we suffer more often in imagination than in reality.”_ 

Why is this important to know, you ask? Fear is important, no doubt. We would'nt survive without it. The kind of fear that gives us sense enough not jump off buildings is great. 
But there's another kind of fear... 

In his book, <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1319.The_War_of_Art" target="_blank" class="evidence">The War of Art</a>, Steven Pressfield talks about **Resistance**: 
a universal force that acts against human creativity. Thinking about starting that blog but never had time to? Resistance. Want to be an artist but waiting for 
inspiration before you start? Resistance. Waiting for everything to fall into place (as if that will ever happen this side of heaven) so you can turn your 
passion into a career? Resi... you get it. If you're a writer who doesn't write, a painter who doesn’t paint, an entrepreneur who never starts a 
venture, then you know what Resistance is. Now, this is where things get interesting. Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance.

First of all, we fear failing. Unbeknownst to us though, we also fear succeeding. We fear discovering that we are more than we think we are. More than our parents/children/teachers think we are. We fear that we actually possess the talent that our still, 
small voice tells us. That we actually have the guts, the perseverance, the capacity. We fear that we truly can steer our ship, plant our flag, reach our Promised Land. 
We fear this because, if it’s true, then we become estranged from all we know. We pass through a membrane. We become monsters and monstrous.

Problem with this kind of fear is, it does'nt manifest itself the same way normal fear does. It's more subtle. Too subtle, I might add. You'll not be shaking, your heart rate won't increase and you'll definitely not 
be saying to yourself, "I really hope I don't succeed in this". 

So, how does it manifest itself? There's a couple of ways which are beyond the scope of a single blog post. I'll just point out the most obvious: Procrastination. 
Procrastination is the most common manifestation of Resistance because it’s the easiest to rationalize. We don’t tell 
ourselves, “I’m never going to do it.” Instead we say, “I am going to do it; I’m just going to start tomorrow.”
>_“The fool, with all his other faults, has this also, he is **always getting ready** to live.” -Seneca_

Ok, we've established a few things so far. First, that fear is usually caused by perceived and anticipated dangers. Second, that we're not talking about 
the usual kind of fear, but the fear that stops us from living the life we should be living, otherwise known as Resistance. Finally, that we don't follow our passions because, 
a) we fear failing, and b) interestingly enough, we fear succeeding. 

Because we know that these fears are only anticipated, unless we can predict the future, who knows if they'll actually happen? And if we can't know, 
is it really worth fearing? It is likely that some troubles will befall us; but it if that trouble is not a present fact, does it make sense to run out to meet our suffering? 
We'll suffer soon enough, so meanwhile, we should be looking forward to better things. If you've lived this life at all, you know how often 
the unexpected has happened, and how often the expected has never come to pass. There's only two ways things could go, and there's only one way to find out.

Looking back at my life right now, I realise that I've made so many bad choices, failed to do what I should be doing, simply because of fear, and most of what I feared never even happened. 
I could be writing more often if I didn't always take so much time thinking if people will like what I put out or not. I'm sure I'm not alone. As much as we should always strive to put out quality 
content, really, so what if its not that good? What better way to learn than from your mistakes. Done is better than perfect. I think sometimes it's best just not to care. 
If you enjoy what you do, go for it. 

>_“Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived
  life within us. Between the two stands Resistance.” -Steven Pressfield_